\input texinfo
@setfilename serbert.info
@documentencoding UTF-8
@settitle SERBERT
@direntry
* SERBERT: (serbert).           perform serial Bit Error Rate Test (BERT)
@end direntry

@node Top
@top SERBERT

@noindent
@anchor{name}
@chapheading Name

serbert --- perform serial Bit Error Rate Test (BERT)

@noindent
@anchor{synopsis}
@chapheading Synopsis

@quotation

@t{serbert  PORT  [-cdfhlqrv ] [ -b   BAUD ] [ -i   SECS ] [ -k   kBYTES ] [ -K   KBYTES ] [ -m   MINS ] [ -n   BYTES ] [ -o   HOURS ] [ -p   PAUSETIME ] [ -s   STRING ] [ -t   TIMEOUT
]}
@sp 1

@end quotation

Whitespace is allowed between a command line option and it's parameter, but is not compulsory.

@noindent
@anchor{DESCRIPTION}
@chapheading DESCRIPTION

@code{serbert}
performs a serial Bit Error Rate Test (BERT) using the given port. Transmits
bytes and waits for their uncorrupted return.

@noindent
@anchor{OPTIONS}
@chapheading OPTIONS

@table @asis

@item @emph{PORT}
Serial port to use.

@item @code{-b}
Baud rate to use: 50, 75, 110, 134, 150, 200, 300, 600, 1200, 1800, 2400,
4800, 9600, 19200, 38400, 57600, 115200.

@item @code{-c}
Continuous mode. Test does not automatically terminate.

@item @code{-d}
Diagnostic mode. Show requested parameters and detailed error messages.

@item @code{-f}
Display further information on test completion.

@item @code{-h}
Display help.

@item @code{-i}
Display intermediate results every SECS seconds.

@item @code{-k}
Number of bytes to send in k (* 1000).

@item @code{-K}
Number of bytes to send in K (* 1024).

@item @code{-l}
Use low latency.

@item @code{-m}
Number of minutes to send.

@item @code{-n}
Number of bytes to send. Default is 1024.

@item @code{-o}
Number of hours to send.

@item @code{-p}
Time between bytes. 0.000000001 to 9999 secs.

@item @code{-q}
Quiet mode. Just display final results.

@item @code{-r}
Send random bytes mode.

@item @code{-s}
The string to send in hex e.g. -sAA55 alternately sends the two bytes hex AA
and 55. The default string is 256 bytes: 00 to FF.

@item @code{-t}
The read timeout to use in microseconds.

@item @code{-v}
Verbose mode. Show all that happens.
@end table

@noindent
@anchor{USAGE}
@chapheading USAGE

@code{serbert}
can be used to check a serial line. By fitting a loopback on one end of a
serial link, and using
@code{serbert}
to inject data into the other, a performance test can be made on the line.

@code{serbert},
however, does not provide a true Bit Error Rate Test (BERT), as it does not
check the individual bits returned. It uses the operating systems standard
serial interface, which provides the status of each returned byte.

Each test will show when a communication error occurs - a timeout or framing
error - unless quiet mode (-q) is selected. At the end of the test, the
number of errors that occurred will be shown.

To test, first you will need to fit a loopback on the line you are testing. On
RS232 lines, this will mean linking the RX and TX lines together - pins 2 and
3. No control lines need to be linked, unless any intermediate equipment (line
drivers, modems, etc.) require it.

The first time you use
@code{serbert}
try linking together the RX and TX lines on your computer, just to check that
@code{serbert}
is working correctly. A D9 and D25, which have pins 2 and 3 linked can be used,
and breakout boxes are also useful for this.

The port to be used must be given. It is the users responsibility to gain
permission to use the port. The user may need to be a member of the dialout
group.

On Linux, for instance, the following can be used:

serbert /dev/ttyS0

This will use the default options, so the 1024 bytes are sent. The bytes sent
are 00 to FF hex sent repeatedly. The default baud rate is 19200, and bytes
are sent 8 bits, no parity, 1 stop bit.

If any communications errors occur, then a report will be shown, giving the
type of error, and the time it occurred.

The time a communications error occurred can be useful on long term tests, to
trace if errors occur at a particular time of day, or with a certain
regularity. If they do, then this may then be associated with a piece of
equipment which is turned on by a timer, or is used at certain times of day.
In this way, equipment interfering with communications can be traced. It is the 
users responsibility to check that the system time is correct.

As an alternative, while the test is running, intermediate results can be
displayed. The -i option will show these intermediate results. The option
requires a number, which is how often to show the intermediate results, in
seconds. The error times will not be shown when the intermediate results
option is used. Alternatively, pressing the 'i' key during the test will show
the intermediate results.

The test can be run for a specified time, number of bytes or continuously. If
the test is to be run for a specified time, then the -m option can be used to
specify the number of minutes, or the -o option for the number of hours. If a
particular number of bytes are to be sent, then the -n, -k or -K options can be
used. The -n option sends the number of bytes given with the option. The -k
and -K options send the the value given, multiplied by either 1000 (kilobytes)
or 1024 (kibibytes) respectively. A test can be performed which does not
automatically terminate, by using the -c option. A test can be terminated at
any time by pressing 'q'. If 'q' is pressed the current results will be shown.

If a different baud rate is required, then -b option can be used to select an
alternative one.

The bytes that are sent can be changed. A specific byte or series of bytes can
be sent using the -s option. -s is followed by the string to send in hex e.g.
-sAA55 alternately sends the two bytes hex AA and 55. A pseudo-random sequence
of bytes can also be sent using the -r option.

While the test is running, if intermediate results (-i) are not being used, any
errors detected will be reported. If this is not required, and only the final
results are needed, the quiet option, -q, can be used. If the test cannot be
run, due, for instance, to an incorrect parameter, any resulting error message
will not be suppressed.

When a byte is transmitted by
@code{serbert},
it waits a certain time for the byte
to be returned. This timeout time, which defaults to 33280uS, can be changed
with the -t option. This option requires a time in microseconds. A longer
timeout time may be required if intermediate equipment delays the passage of
the byte.

If the rate of bytes sent needs to be slowed down, then the -p option can be
used. A pause of between 0.000000001 to 9999 seconds can be used.

To view the bytes being sent and received, as well as the communications
errors, use the -v option, verbose mode. This can be useful to check if a
timeout has occurred due to a byte returning late, leading
@code{serbert}
to believe a corrupt byte has been received. This type of error should be fairly
consistant, and, using the -v option, easy to detect. If it is occurring, use
the -t option to increase the timeout. The -v option cannot be used with the
intermediate results option -i.

Further information on the test run can be obtained by using the -f option.
Currently this information consists of the maximum, minimum and average time
that bytes took to return.

The -l option selects low latency. This is an experimental feature, which
will probably do nothing.

Help can be displayed by using the -h option, or by entering
'@code{serbert}'
without any parameters. No test will be run after help is displayed.

@noindent
@anchor{DIAGNOSTICS}
@chapheading DIAGNOSTICS

There is a diagnostics mode, switched on by the -d option. When this is used
the current settings are displayed before the test commences. Also, more
detailed system error messages (as opposed to communication error messages) are
shown.

@noindent
@anchor{EXIT STATUS}
@chapheading EXIT STATUS

@code{serbert}
will exit with code 0 if it could perform a test. It exits with code 1 when it
was unable to open a serial port, or encountered an invalid command line option.

@noindent
@anchor{AUTHOR}
@chapheading AUTHOR

D W Clarke <dwclarke@@users.sourceforge.net>

@noindent
@anchor{COPYRIGHT}
@chapheading COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2004, 2010, 2011 D W Clarke <dwclarke@@users.sourceforge.net>. This software
is licensed under the GNU Public License. See the file COPYING, included with
this software, for details.

@bye
